V1.1 (#97)
mulesoft/docs-service-mesh: modules/ROOT/pages/create-an-api-configure-service-mesh-CRD.adoc

If you want to create REST or SOAP APIs with OAS or WSDL definition, use Anypoint Platform.
+
Note that if you want to upload a REST API or OAS asset type, use a .json or .yaml file. Alternatively, if you want to upload a SOAP API or WSDL asset type, use a .wsdl or .xml file.

> * <<create_api-CRD, Create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh Autocreate with user credentials>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<create_api-CRD, Create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh Autocreate with Connected Apps>>
```

Author: This one is for the user credentials.

+

> Anypoint Service Mesh enables you to automatically create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform using username and password, with no REST or SOAP definitions. You do not have to manually log in to Anypoint Platform. 

Reviewer 2: What do you think of adding the following information here?
```suggestion
Anypoint Service Mesh enables you to automatically create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform using username and password, with no REST or SOAP definitions. You do not have to manually log in to Anypoint Platform. 
+
Use this option if your users are managed by Anypoint Platform. 
```
Please, if you choose to apply my suggestion, apply it also in `create-an-api-configure-service-mesh-CLI.adoc`

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
If you automatically create REST or SOAP APIs with Anypoint Service Mesh, the APIs are still managed internally as an HTTP asset without any definition.
* <<create-api-CRD-ConnAps, Create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh Autocreate with client credentials>>
+

> Anypoint Service Mesh enables you to automatically create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform using the credentials you create with xref:access-management::connected-apps-overview.adoc[Connected Apps]. You do not have to manually log in to Anypoint Platform.

Reviewer 2: What do you think of changing the wording for something like:
```suggestion
Anypoint Service Mesh enables you to automatically create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform using the credentials of xref:access-management::connected-apps-overview.adoc[Connected Apps]. You do not have to manually log in to Anypoint Platform.
```
Please, if you choose to apply my suggestion, apply it also in `create-an-api-configure-service-mesh-CLI.adoc`

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> Use this option if your users are managed by an external single sign-on (SSO) application or an external identity provider (IdP). When you use a client application for authentication instead of an external IdP, you must use the client ID and client secret.

Reviewer 2: What do you think of changing the wording for something like:

```suggestion
Use this option if your users are managed by Anypoint Platform or an external identity provider (IdP).
```
Please, if you choose to apply my suggestion, apply it also in `create-an-api-configure-service-mesh-CLI.adoc`

Author: Done! Thanks!

+

> If you automatically create REST or SOAP APIs with Anypoint Service Mesh, the APIs are still managed internally as an HTTP asset without any definition. 

Reviewer 3: Ditto edits to the same text in the previously edited file above.

Reviewer 3: Also, I checked with PMM and there is no recognized name "Anypoint Service Mesh Autocreate," so please reword using lowercase "autocorrect" and a noun object, like "feature".

Author: Done! Thanks!

Your API is now created.

[[create_api-CRD]]
== Create an API Using Anypoint Service Mesh With User Credentials

Use the procedure in this section to automatically create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh with your username and password. Before you create the API, you must complete the task prerequisite.

> 

Reviewer 3: ditto prev edits to same text
Does the doc require all this repetition?

Author: Yes, these are two very different kind of users and they'll choose one over the other. That's why we need to repeat this information. Done! Thanks!

To store your user credentials in Kubernetes secrets:

. In a YAML file, create a secret in which to store the sensitive information, for example, `orders-api-config.yaml`:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: _secret name_ # example: orders-api-config
  namespace: _namespace name_ # example: default
type: Opaque
stringData:
  config: |
    {
      "user": "_replace-with-anypoint-username_",

>       "password": "_replace-with-anypoint-clientSecret_"

Reviewer 2: Please change this for 
```suggestion
      "password": "_replace-with-anypoint-password_"
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

    }
----
. Apply the secret: 
+
`kubectl apply -f orders-api-config.yaml`
+
If the secret is correctly applied, a 'secret/orders-api-config created' message is displayed.
+
. Reference the secret in your API CRD (instead of the user and password parameter), as illustrated in the following example:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
apiVersion: servicecatalog.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: ServiceInstance
metadata:
  name: _Kubernetes API resource name_ # example: orders-api
  namespace: _namespace name_ # example: default
  labels:
    service-mesh.mulesoft.com/kind: api
spec:
  clusterServiceClassExternalName: anypoint-platform-api-instance
  clusterServicePlanExternalName: service-mesh
  parameters:
    environmentId: _environment ID_ # example: 7cea45c6-3237-464d-bd34-3122c4abde29
    groupId: _group ID_ # Optional - example: 350b8164-e809-4091-91f5-079fb30e5a1e
    assetId: _asset ID_ # example: orders-api
    version: _version_ # example: 0.0.1
    instanceLabel: _instance label_ # example: public
    tags:
      apiSpec:
      - _tag in Exchange asset_ # example: orders
      apiInstance:
      - _tag in API Manager instance_ # example: orders

>     clientId: _ID of the Anypoint Platform connected app_
>     clientSecret: _Secret of the Anypoint Platform connected app_

Reviewer 2: Please replace these lines with:
```suggestion
    parametersFrom: # The element specifies the secret name and configuration required for retrieving the parameters.
    - secretKeyRef:
        name: _secret name_ # example: orders-api-config
        key: config
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

----

[[create-api-CRD-ConnAps]]

> == Create an API Using Anypoint Service Mesh With Client Credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create an API Using Anypoint Service Mesh With Connected Apps
```

Reviewer: Do we need to duplicate the whole section to introduce this new capability?

Author: Yes, I think it is easier for the user this way. Once they decide which way they want to follow, they just do to one section of the document and get done with the task.

> Use the procedure in this section to automatically create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh using your Conncted App client credentials. Before you create the API, you must complete the task prerequisite.

Reviewer 2: What do you think of changing the wording for something like:
```suggestion
Use the procedure in this section to automatically create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh using the credentials of your Conncted App. Before you create the API, you must complete the task prerequisite.
```

Feel free to discard my suggestion.
Please, if you choose to apply my suggestion, apply it also in `create-an-api-configure-service-mesh-CLI.adoc`

Author: Done in both files:
Use the procedure in this section to automatically create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh with your Connected App credentials.
Thanks!

* The client credentials has the:
** Exchange Contributor permission to publish the API to Exchange
** Manage API Configuration to manage the API in API Manager

To create an API in Anypoint Platform using Anypoint Service Mesh:

. Create your api definition file and save it with a '.yaml' file extension, for example `test-api.yaml`:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
apiVersion: servicecatalog.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: ServiceInstance
metadata:
  name: _Kubernetes API resource name_ # example: orders-api
  namespace: _namespace name_ # example: default
  labels: 
    service-mesh.mulesoft.com/kind: api
spec:
  clusterServiceClassExternalName: anypoint-platform-api-instance
  clusterServicePlanExternalName: service-mesh
  parameters:
    environmentId: _environment ID_ # example: 7cea45c6-3237-464d-bd34-3122c4abde29
    groupId: _group ID_ # Optional - example: 350b8164-e809-4091-91f5-079fb30e5a1e
    assetId: _asset ID_ # example: orders-api
    version: _version_ # example: 0.0.1
    instanceLabel: _instance label_ # example: public
    tags:
      apiSpec:
      - _tag in Exchange asset_ # example: orders
      apiInstance:
      - _tag in API Manager instance_ # example: orders

>     user: _Username of the Anypoint Platform user_
>     password: _Password of the Anypoint Platform user_

Reviewer 2: Please change these lines for:
```suggestion
    clientId: _ID of the Anypoint Platform connected app_
    clientSecret: _Secret of the Anypoint Platform connected app_
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

----
. Apply the CRD file using the following command:
`kubectl apply -f test-api.yaml`
. Verify the API status using the following command:
`asmctl api list`
+
The API that was created is displayed.
. Optionally, you can verify that an asset is created on Exchange and an API is created on API Manager.

== Reference Kubernetes Secret

> Anypoint Service Mesh supports the use of Kubernetes secrets to store and manage sensitive information, such as your user credentials.

Reviewer 2: Please, change the text of this sentence for:
```suggestion
Anypoint Service Mesh supports the use of Kubernetes secrets to store and manage sensitive information, such as your Connected App credentials.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

      - _tag in Exchange asset_ # example: orders
      apiInstance:
      - _tag in API Manager instance_ # example: orders

>     parametersFrom: # The element specifies the secret name and configuration required for retrieving the parameters.
>     - secretKeyRef:
>         name: _secret name_ # example: orders-api-config
>         key: config

Reviewer 2: The position of `parametersFrom` was the correct one, the change to align it with `secretKeyRef` would be:
```suggestion
  parametersFrom: # The element specifies the secret name and configuration required for retrieving the parameters.
  - secretKeyRef:
      name: _secret name_ # example: orders-api-config
      key: config
```
Would you mind performing the same change in: https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-service-mesh/blame/v1.1/modules/ROOT/pages/create-an-api-configure-service-mesh-CRD.adoc#L276

Reviewer 3: ...again, do we have to repeat texts in different contexts?

Author: Fixed, check with Fran!

Reviewer 2: What i'm saying is that `parametersFrom` has to be a sibling of `parameters`, not a child of it. It other words, both have to be at the same level.

Both examples, creating an API via CRD with user and connected apps credentials, have the same mistake, `parametersFrom` is placed as if it were a child of `parameters`.

----

[[create-api-CRD-ConnAps]]
== Create an API Using Anypoint Service Mesh With Connected Apps

Use the procedure in this section to automatically create an API using Anypoint Service Mesh with your Connected App credentials. Before you create the API, you must complete the task prerequisite.

*Task Prerequisite*

Before you begin, ensure that you:

* You xref:obtain-connected-apps-credentials.adoc[Obtain the client ID and client secret credentials] from Connected Apps
* The client credentials has the:
** Exchange Contributor permission to publish the API to Exchange

> ** Manage API Configuration to manage the API in API Manager

Reviewer 3: ditto prev. edits to same text

Author: Done! Thanks!

To create an API in Anypoint Platform using Anypoint Service Mesh with Connected Apps:

> . Create your api definition file and save it with a '.yaml' file extension, for example `test-api.yaml`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Create your API definition file and save it with a '.yaml' file extension:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
[source,text,linenums]
----
apiVersion: servicecatalog.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: ServiceInstance
metadata:
  name: _Kubernetes API resource name_ # example: orders-api
  namespace: _namespace name_ # example: default
  labels: 
    service-mesh.mulesoft.com/kind: api
spec:
  clusterServiceClassExternalName: anypoint-platform-api-instance
  clusterServicePlanExternalName: service-mesh
  parameters:
    environmentId: _environment ID_ # example: 7cea45c6-3237-464d-bd34-3122c4abde29
    groupId: _group ID_ # Optional - example: 350b8164-e809-4091-91f5-079fb30e5a1e
    assetId: _asset ID_ # example: orders-api
    version: _version_ # example: 0.0.1
    instanceLabel: _instance label_ # example: public
    tags:
      apiSpec:
      - _tag in Exchange asset_ # example: orders
      apiInstance:
      - _tag in API Manager instance_ # example: orders
    clientId: _ID of the Anypoint Platform connected app_
    clientSecret: _Secret of the Anypoint Platform connected app_
----

> . Apply the CRD file using the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Apply the CRD file:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

`kubectl apply -f test-api.yaml`

> . Verify the API status using the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Verify the API status:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

`asmctl api list`
+

> The API that was created is displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The API is displayed.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Optionally, you can verify that an asset is created on Exchange and an API is created on API Manager.

== Reference Kubernetes Secret

> Anypoint Service Mesh supports the use of Kubernetes secrets to store and manage sensitive information, such as your Connected App credentials.

Reviewer 3: Explicitly state the purpose to not have to use username and password?

Author: Done! Thanks!

*Task Prerequisites*

> You must have the required permissions to create the Kubernetes secret.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You must have the permissions required to create the Kubernetes secret.
```

Reviewer 3: ditto previous org edit about separating prereq from task steps using an inline head for prereq but no transition for steps

Author: OK! Done!

        key: config

> ----

Reviewer 2: The secret of [this line](https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-service-mesh/blame/v1.1/modules/ROOT/pages/create-an-api-configure-service-mesh-CRD.adoc#L238) contains user credentials instead of client ones. Is it possible to change those parameters with:
```
      "clientId": "_replace-with-connected-app-id_",
      "clientSecret": "_replace-with-connected-app-secret_"
```

Author: Done! Thanks!
